---
title: MongoQP: MongoDB Slow Query Profiler
also:
    - http://blog.mongodb.org/post/37261742378/mongoqp-mongodb-slow-query-profiler
tags:
    - mongodb
    - profiling

---
> Twice a year, 10gen's Drivers team gathers together for a face-to-face meeting
to work together and set goals for the upcoming six months. This year, the team
broke up into small groups for an evening hackathon. MongoQP, a query profiler,
was one of the hacks presented by Jeremy Mikola, PHP Evangelist at 10gen. This
entry was originally published on the [MongoDB blog].

Logging slow queries is essential for any database application, and MongoDB
makes doing so relatively painless with its database profiler. Unfortunately,
making sense of the system.profile collection and tying its contents back to
your application requires a bit more effort. The heart of [mongoqp] (MongoDB
Query Profiler) is a bit of map/reduce JavaScript that aggregates those queries
by their BSON skeleton (i.e. keys preserved, but values removed). With queries
reduced to their bare structure, any of their statistics can be aggregated, such
as average query time, index scans, counts, etc.

![](/images/20121205-mongoqp_list.png){.img-responsive}

As a fan of Justin Hileman's [Genghis], a single-file MongoDB admin app, I
originally intended to contribute a new UI with the profiler results, but one
night was not enough time to wrap my head around Backbone.js and develop the
query aggregation. Instead, I whipped up a quick frontend using the Silex PHP
micro-framework. But with the hack day deadline no longer looming, there should
be plenty of time to get this functionality ported over to Genghis.
Additionally, the map/reduce JS may also show up in Tyler Brock's [mongo-hacker]
shell enhancement package.

![](/images/20121205-mongoqp_profile.png){.img-responsive}

While presenting mongoqp to my co-workers, I also learned about Dan Crosta's
[professor], which already provides many of the features I had hoped to
implement, such as incremental data collection. I think there is still a benefit
to developing the JS innards of mongoqp and getting its functionality ported
over to other projects, but I would definitely encourage you to check out
professor if you'd like a stand-alone query profile viewer.

Contributions are welcome through [Github][mongoqp].

  [MongoDB blog]: http://blog.mongodb.org/post/37261742378/mongoqp-mongodb-slow-query-profiler
  [Genghis]: http://genghisapp.com/
  [mongoqp]: https://github.com/jmikola/mongoqp
  [mongo-hacker]: https://github.com/TylerBrock/mongo-hacker
  [professor]: https://github.com/dcrosta/professor
